---
title: "The Staff+ Engineer’s Journey: Unlocking the Secrets of Staff+ Impact — Thiago Ghisi"
slug: "the-staff-engineers-journey-unlocking-the-secrets-of-staff-impact-thiago-ghisi"
author: "Samuel Wang"
description: "Explore the path to becoming a Staff+ engineer with Thiago Ghisi. Learn about high-impact roles, multi-scale planning, and ownership beyond coding."
tags: ["Leadership", "Engineering Career"]
releaseDate: "2024-09-12"
updateDate: "2024-09-12"
---

::video-youtube{id=yJJ_SHhH2Wg}

This Tech Lead Journal episode discusses “What does it take to become a Staff+ engineer?” with Thiago Ghisi.

## Definition of a Staff+ Engineer

Thiago Ghisi’s definition of a Staff+ Engineer breaks down to three core expectations:

- has a high blast radius of impact
- be able to do multi-scale planning and influence the organization to do that
- has an ownership level that is beyond reactive or beyond waiting for someone to give them a problem

## The Different Level & Scope of Responsibilities

As a junior engineer, you are working at the task level, you’re given some instructions or examples to complete a task.

As a mid-level engineer, you can handle a little ambiguous and larger tasks.

As a senior engineer, you can get something that is not well-defined and large tasks and you can own the end-to-end delivery.

As a staff engineer, you start to oversee not only one feature, but multiple features, multiple groups, multiple squads, and multiple teams. You’re working on important things, not only for a small area or a small team.

From staff to senior staff or principal, you own a couple of backlogs or a product line. Especially as a principal engineer, you are at the domain and the product line level, and you should be able to impact the industry.

## What You Got Here Won’t Get You There

The easiest way to transition from senior to staff is that have had an experience as a manager.

As a manager, you have the experience and ability to influence, delegate, and inspire people. When you transition from a manager to a staff engineer, you naturally have these abilities in leadership and understand what is the thing that’s going to move the needle of the organization.

## High Blast Radius Impact

The high blast radius impact is that the amount of the organization surface that you’re impacting matters.

You can influence multiple groups instead of only on your department. You make a change or a new framework or a new way of doing things that makes engineers’ lives easier rather than impacting all the time or the engineers.

Another kind of high blast radius is to deeply impact the business in a single bounded context. For example, improve the efficiency of a product line.

## Multi-Scale Planning & Influence

Although the staff engineer is not the people manager, the staff engineer still has to influence people and the organization.

The staff engineer needs to be able to play with multiple horizons of time, like a quarter or a half of a year.

The staff engineer knows who has to talk to get a vision into place and can align senior engineers to complete a big vision.

## Stakeholder Management

Many engineers have no patience to influence or convince stakeholders.

If you have a solution, you have to talk to stakeholders early, especially those key people, to seed the materials early, and you can get feedback back early.

## Ownership & Autonomy Level

The staff engineer has to look for the next set of problems that the organization needs to fix.

When you find some problems, you have to follow up with them and try to drive them to completion.

It’s hard to find problems because you have to go out of the codebase, talk to people, drive problems to completion, write them into docs, and influence the roadmap.
